Microsoft Dataverse is designed to let you quickly and easily create a data model
 for your app, based on the tables and the table metadata that you include in your app.

You cannot change the following after the table is created:
    Schema name
    Table type
    Table ownership

Best practice is to create tables from within a Dataverse solution. The table will inherit the publisher prefix from the solution.

Table types

Before creating tables in Dataverse, you should understand the different types of custom tables that you can create:
    Standard: A table where you can store data and add to the navigation in model-driven apps. Most tables you create are standard tables.
    Activity: Activity tables store interactions such as phone calls, tasks, and appointments. Dataverse has a set of activity tables. These tables share the same set of columns and share security privileges. Many of the table options, including the primary column, are fixed and can't be changed. Activity tables appear in the timeline on model-driven app forms.
    Virtual: Virtual tables connect to data from an external data source such as Microsoft Azure SQL Database or a SharePoint List.
    Elastic: Used when your table includes a large dataset, the elastic tables offer performance benefits over standard tables and are powered by Azure Cosmos DB. There are some considerations when to use them over other table types.

After a table is created, the table type / table owernship can't be changed.

Table Ownership
    User or team owned: Actions that can be performed on these rows can be controlled at the user level.
    Organization-owned: Access to the data is controlled at the organization level.

You can't delete standard tables, but you can hide them. To hide a standard table, change the security role privileges for your organization to remove the Read privilege for that table.

Differences between canvas and model-driven apps

Model-driven apps can use all actions available on business rules, however not all business rule actions are available for canvas apps.
    Show or hide columns.
    Enable or disable columns.
    Create business recommendations based on business intelligence.

Security
Instead of assigning each privilege to a user, you assign one or more Dataverse security roles to users. This simplifies management of user access.

You can assign several built-in security roles:
SysAdmin: full permission to customize the env
Environment Maker: Can create new resources associated with an environment
Basic User: Can run the app

Dual-write & Virtual Entities type of connections to external data sources

Dual-write provides tightly coupled, bidirectional integration between finance and operations apps and Dataverse.
Any data change in finance and operations apps causes writes to Dataverse, and any data change in Dataverse causes writes to finance and operations apps. This automated data flow provides an integrated user experience across the apps.
Dual-write also supports online and offline mode, and it follows the no-code/low-code principle.

Virtual Entities
the data for virtual entities doesn't reside in Dataverse.
Instead, it continues to reside in the app where it belongs.
Before CRUD operations can be performed on finance and operations entities from Dataverse, the entities must be made available as virtual entities in Dataverse (thanks to OData) Open Data Protocol
 Power Apps portals can be used to build external-facing websites that enable collaboration scenarios for business processes in finance and operations apps.

when to use Dual-write vs Virtual Entities?
They're complementary technologies that are intended to work together.
Dual-write is your best option when your data resides completely inside Dataverse (near-time interaction)
Virtual entities seamlessly represent external data inside of Dataverse without need to replicate data.
If your data is for read-only, this may be a more appropriate approach for you,


columns
- you should have less than a few hundred columns in a table.
- Primary name is modifiable and friendlier for Business users  whereas Primary Key is a unique GUID

Rollup columns:
  - Max 100 for each organization
  - Max 10 for each table
  - Cant trigger Workflows

Choices columns:
  - Do not use to select categories instead create categories tables and reference them using look up value
Primary name
  - You can only have one primary column for each custom table

Autonumber Column
Autonumber columns appear in the Text category of columns when you create a new column.
You can also activate autonumber functionality in an existing text column by opening the column and selecting Autonumber in the datatype dropdown.

String prefixed number --> Contoso-1001, Contoso-1002
Date prefixed number --> 2019-26-02-1000, 2019-27-02-1000


Key
  - A key can be made up of one or many columns. If you select multiple columns, then the key is called a compound key.
  - You can create up to five keys for each table.

Security technologies
It's common to segment environments for development, test, and production.
Production env includes access to data of Dataverse DB, Power Apps and Power Automate Flows

Env Roles
Environment Admin
  Add or remove users
  Provision a Dataverse DB for the ENV
  View and manage all resources created within the env
  Set data loss prevention policies
Environment Maker (default association when user is added to new env)
   can distribute the apps that they build in an environment to other users within an organization

Dataverse uses role-based security to group together a collection of privileges.
A key concept of Dataverse security to understand is that privileges are accumulative with the greatest amount of access prevailing.

Record ownership is a choice that happens at the time the table is created and can’t be changed.
Each user is a member of only one business unit, but a team can have user members from multiple business units.

Performance considerations
Keep the effective hierarchy security to 50 users or less under a manager/position.
 create fewer business units and add hierarchy security.

 Users or security groups can be assigned to these roles by a System Administrator from the Power Apps Administration Center.
