Power App Variables, Controls, Functions.

Power App Functions
The Patch function is used to create and modify records in complex situations,
 such as when you do updates that require no user interaction or use forms that span multiple screens.
The Set function is used to create a global variable, which is available throughout the app across all the screens.
Patch function is used to modify records of a data source.
The Language function returns the language, script, and region of the logged-in user.
The Location signal returns the location, IP Address of the device based on the global positioning system (GPS)

Variables
Global variables are used to hold a number, text string, Boolean, record, table,
 and so on that can be referenced from anywhere in the app.



Collection
A collection is a form of a variable that holds a table of values that can be referenced from anywhere in the app

ClearCollect function removes all existing data from the named collection, and then writes in the new set of data to the collection.
 The Collect function will add data to the collection but will not remove old data from the collection.

Connection
A cloud SQL Server database sync with a dataflow would be valid if the transactions were in SQL Server online.
An on-premises data gateway (personal mode) can be used only with Power BI,
An on-premises data gateway must be installed to connect to the on-premises system.

Chat bot
Topics are conversation triggers and dictate how a conversation will proceed.
entities refer to categories of information that exist, like email, city, zip code, or phone numbers.
Variables in Power Virtual Agents are used to store user responses for further use in the chat conversation.
Using channels, you can publish a chatbot to Microsoft Teams, Live websites, mobile apps, etc.

Desktop Automate Flow
The required prerequisites for setting a desktop flow that is triggered by Power Automate includes:
 the virtual or physical machine to run the process & a work account to connect.

Power Automate

App checker checks both flows and functionality of the app to ensure it works as intended.
Solution checker is only for single solutions at a time.
Monitor shows bugs in code in real time as you run the app.
Flow checker is only for checking Power Automate flows.
Canvas apps can only use or trigger instant cloud flows.

You share the flow with run-only user access.
A run-only user can find a shared cloud flow in the Power Automate mobile app and in the My flows cloud flow list.


 Canvas App
 Canvas apps can be embedded only inside a model-driven app, not on custom-built apps.
  Canvas apps can only use or trigger instant cloud flows.
Power BI
Bubble charts are a great way to present financial data.
A scatter chart is ideal for showing the relationship between two numerical values,
Waterfall charts are useful to compare changes across time or categories.
A line chart is a visualization chart used to represent a series of data points connected by a straight line. (continuos data) - time series forecasting - stock market trend analysis
You can create a dashboard with up to six different visuals
You must create the views for each requirement to add them to the dashboard.
Dataflows help organizations unify data from disparate sources.
Publishing the Power BI report to a Power BI Premium workspace is a way of sharing the report with users
Adding a Power BI tile in a canvas app displays Power BI information within the app.
You cannot share directly from Power BI Desktop
The Send Link is another mechanism of sharing a report, but it is only available through the Power BI service experience.
 reduce the number of Power BI tiles on the home screen to three per the documented recommendation.
 The LoadPowerBIContent can be used to selectively load and unload a tile if and when a user needs to see the tile or needs to interact with the tile.
Power BI Service includes a collection of ready-made visuals that are prearranged on dashboards and reports for a company.
Power BI Desktop is used to create and develop bespoke Power BI reports.
A treemap is used to display large amounts of hierarchical data.
A combo chart is a multi-series chart that can have two Y axes.
 A funnel visualization uses a linear process that has connected stages, where items flow sequentially from one stage to the next.
 A matrix table is a grid that contains related data in a logical series of rows and columns.
When enabled, Export to PDF is available only for users who are in the same Power BI tenant.
When visuals with wallpaper are exported to PDF, the wallpaper will not be exported.
Export to PDF is available from both Power BI Desktop and Power BI Service.
Visuals with themes that use a custom font will be replaced with a default font when exported to PDF.

AI Builder
The prebuilt model does not need to be trained. It works natively with Power Automate, and there is no minimum number of sample invoices needed.
The key phrase extraction prebuilt model identifies the main points in a text document.
he text translation prebuilt model translates text data in real time across more than 60 languages.
Receipt processing is a prebuilt model that uses state-of-the-art optical character recognition (OCR) to detect printed and handwritten text and extract key information from receipts.
Training a custom object detection AI Builder model requires a minimum of 15 images for each of the objects that you want to tag. An image can contain multiple objects.
The forms processing model needs to be configured and trained to use it.
The text recognition model can scan PDFs and extract information without needing to configure or train the model.


Power Pages
Power Pages supports the use of Liquid templates, is fully form factor responsive, and is natively connected to the Dataverse.


Dataverse
The restrict behavior prevents the primary table row (Account) from being deleted when related table rows exist
The Remove Link behavior removes only the lookup value for all related rows, orphaning the rows from the related account.
The decimal number type of column supports up to 10 decimal places.
When a user uses Search in view, the search is performed on columns, which are configured in the Find Columns of the table.
Setting the scope to Entity enforces this behavior within the canvas app as well as any model-driven apps.
When form access is defined through security roles, if a user has not logged in with a security role that is configured for any form,
 the form enabled for fallback will be displayed even if the user does not have any other access permissions.
Enabling the Appears in global filter in interactive experience column option allows you to use the column as a filter condition in the interactive experience dashboard.
