1. In Model driven App. You need to configure app navigation for users. Where should you perform the configuration?
The site map designer is used to configure the navigation available within a model-driven app

2. Approvals
Power Automate Approval Center, Received approval email, Power Automate mobile app.

3. You need to define the conversation path between employees and the bot.
Topics

4. extend the functionality of an existing model-driven app.
Ensure SDK message processing steps are enabled during import.

5. You export the solution and import it into another environment.
You exported and imported an unmanaged solution.

6. You observe that emails are not triggered.
Add the Power Automate flows to a new solution. Export from the development environment and import into the test environment.

7.You need to resolve missing dependency before trying to reimport.
Add the missing dependencies to the solution in the development environment and export the solution again.
Add the missing dependencies to a new solution in the development environment and export the solution again.

8.Sharing an app with an user
The user must be added to the environment.
The user requires a Power Apps license.

9. notify users that app was shared with theme
Provide users with a direct web link for the app.

10.You need to trigger the desktop flow to run on a weekly schedule by using a Microsoft Power Automate cloud flow.
machine, work account

11. You need to enable sharing of these apps with external users.
Canvas App, Power App portal

12. Data model requirements:
    Link related stakeholders together and describe the relationship between the stakeholders.
    Associate free form text with a customer record and have the text appear in the timeline.
Connection, Annotation

13. You want to use document management within the app.
Sharepoint Online & Microsoft OneDrive

14. Users report that the home screen is slow and the Power BI tiles take a long time to load.
Reduce the number of Power BI tiles to three on the home screen.
Load the Power BI tiles only as needed by using the LoadPowerBIContent property.

15.You are designing a Microsoft Power BI report for a sales organization.
Connect to the Opportunity fields by using the PowerBIIntegration object.
Save and publish the app.
Share the app and report with users.

16. What is the minimum number of images you should use to train AI Builder
15

17. You need to ensure that account records cannot be deleted when related outstanding payments remain.
Restrict

18. In the app, users must capture readings that can have a precision of up to 10 decimal places.
Decimal

19.Custom table in Dataverse and users enter through canvas app
Setting the scope to Entity enforces this behavior within the canvas app as well as any model-driven apps.

20. you must clear the value of a column of the primary contact record.
Use the Update a Row action. Use the Dynamic content option to set the value of the column as expression value null.

21. The app maker did not create the app within a custom solution nor add it to an existing solution.
Default solution

22. You want to interpret errors by using only one tool.
App checker

23. You share the flow with run-only user access.
cloud flow list
Power Automate mobile app

24. You require a Microsoft Power Automate flow that is triggered from within the canvas app.
instant cloud flow inside the solution

25. An external user tries to export a report from a shared dashboard but Export to PDF is unavailable.
Export to PDF is available only to users within the organization.

26. Limit the availble views and forms
Dynamic 365 Sales app - Power BI

27. When users without the correct security role sign in, the forms must display only limited customer information.
Enable the form as a fallback form for the account table.

28. If the email notification financial
run after

29. Users report a bug with the current live version of the app, version 3.
Version 3 of the app remains as the live version.
Version 4 of the app is created.

30. Users report they cannot filter out requests in the global filter in the dashboard based on a newly created Yes/No column.
Enable Appears in global filter in interactive experience for the column.

31. The university wants to find students based on the courses in which they enroll.
Filter, LookUp

32.You need to restore a previously saved version.
The canvas app details screen lists all versions and allows users to restore previous versions.
