Tools available for you to test your canvas apps include the Power Apps Test Studio
This tool can help you write, organize, and automate your tests for canvas apps.
, you can use Monitor to check network activity
Execution phases in canvas apps
  Authenticate the user:
  Get metadata:
  Initialize the app:
  Render the screens:

  All of these call flow gates can cause performance considerations and potential opportunities for optimization
  the OData request goes directly to Dataverse, without going through Azure API Management, connectors, or data gateways.
  Traditional: APP --> Azure API Management --> Data source in travel back
  recommended: APP --> Dataverse

  Sources of Slow performances
  - App is client-heavy: operations like JSON, sort, GroupBy,
  - Has long formula in OnStart: unnecessary bunch of data calls in screen
  delegating the workload to the server is recommended when possible.
  From the perspective of client memory consumption, it's important to make the client app lightweight.

Bottleneck in the data source
    The back-end machine hosting the data source is low on resources.
    The back-end SQL instance has blockings, deadlocks, or resource contention.
    The on-premises data gateway is unhealthy.

Client browsers, devices, and locations
encourage to use modern updated and supported browsers
-  locate the data source near your largest user base (data gateway & data source close )
- Debug published app setting enabled (republish your app with this setting disabled)


Monitor
 can use Monitor either to view events while building a new app in Power Apps Studio
 to monitor published apps during runtime.

 Watching the events as they occur in your app can help you understand the order of events and how your app is performing, to spot errors and diagnose problems faster.

 Introducing Power Apps analytics

  a series of reports providing a view into environment level usage, errors, service performance, and change management services to users.
   You can access them by signing into the Power Platform admin center and select Analytics > Power Apps.
   The Usage report is shown by default when logging into the admin center.

Documentation
Definitions
Architecture and Design decisions
Technical spec
End-user (channels - tutorials)
Internal Marketing
Change Log
